The meeting between Malphas and the rebellion happens in a ruined [[Dawn's Crossing]]. The rebellion has destroyed it. Armies are here, and things are tense. Halamar (Half elf) is the rebellion leader, but [[Glinthorn]] is here to talk to us. [[Malphas]] does not want to tell the rebellion of the truth of his origins.

Halamar took no visible damage during our fight? He also has the Sword of Oris, the Duskfall Blade.

Is there outer space?
No, we know abt the sun and stuff. We still have a moon though? No stars or constellations. No concept of space. Astronomy isn't a field. 

Halamar how do you know this stuff about the high ones? 
He is reluctant to answer because of Lithiel's soul link to Razikale. Lithiel casts nondetection About 20 years ago I was on an Eldramarri expedition, and there was a research group tasked with Valuren ruins. It collapsed, and fell into a deeper network of caves. Three of them lived thanks to the intervention of a giant. No name, male, cracked like lightning with a huge beard. Spoke gibberish, but took care of them, and they left into the tunnels. The things the giant showed them were ancient languages, glyphs, places humming with power. The giant advised against descending, but they kept going. One died to cave trolls. A dead end, they gave up. Then they hear singing, not in their language yet they understand. The companion attacked Halamr, and Halamar struck in self defense. The dead end opened and revealed a place on no map, more ancient than the valuren. Constructs that look weird. Made of spheres, cubes, abstract things that prowled and ignored him. Tasks unknown. Singing came from them. In the center there was a building made of these shapes and he found a construct within that could translate to something comprehensible. The construct delivered great wisdom - called herself an oracle. Spoke of the high ones, their impending return, a great betrayal, misuse of gifts left behind, and how to banish the high ones. He saw many murals but cannot explain them. The high ones were referred to as parasites that leech on existence, both on Eos and off of it. Creators had left safeguards. The original beacons came from them. The beacons were to stop the high ones. The oracle mentioned other locales and he gained his power at one such location. He spent about 20 years underground to learn all the details and the language and all of that. Then he came up and started his rebellion, what he learned pushed him to action. He believes the Dawnborn to be innocent except for Malphas and Oris. Oris supposedly gave the Dawnborn their powers. 

The plan to destroy the high ones: We are hunting the numinos. A numinos does not exist, it is not real. It is Oris. A Prophet at full power. If we can channel Oris into the beacon, the shockwave should be able to push them out of our reality. He does not believe she requires the relics, they are not related to the high one power. They are related to her divine status. His blade can take him to Inodan. 

The Oracle Halamar spoke to said that her creators came to the world long before any others, they built their structures and her people and created extremely powerful divine beings. These Gods were also constructs, similar in power to the Divine Guardian. They ran the world, and created life. At some point following the fall of the Valuren but before the Dawnborn - Oris discovered and killed these Gods and took all their power into herself. Motive unclear. Her people were then given her power, but less than herself. They are not Gods, they killed the Gods and took their power. That is the great betrayal. We believe the Dawnborn know where the power came from, but not that Oris killed them. This could be the last cycle now that they're gone. 

To give the relic to Oris he must do it himself in Inodan, or he needs to explain his logic to Malphas at the beacon.