Supposedly the most magical place in all of [[Eos]] that is not the [[Dawnborn]]'s throne of [[Inodan]]. There are tales of people emerging from the woods with entirely new power and understandings of life, but also those who who become forever trapped within. It is in very close proximity to the [[Evermoon]].
An [[Toth|all-consuming evil]] protects [[King Lysandre's Blade]] deep within the woods. Scrimshaw claimed that 'His name can be heard in the trees,' referring to the evil presence.

The Whisperwood has a memory curse that disorients you, and is considered a (fear or charm). We met a cute water guy who copies us sometimes and is friendly. They find gender confusing, as does Lithiel.
We saw a small squirrel guy in the trees? We encountered a squirmel, half-squirrel half-cat little guys. These ones are from the Wild Hunt. Lord Herne is here with Archdruid Felanthe! They take us to him, and have heard of Lithiel. The trees whisper that Lithiel is here to cause harm... They think she's part of the cult of the rook. This is the Rootwoven sanctuary. The camp is obscured from the outside with magic. Based on the map of the forest, we understand it is magically artificial and influenced by the fey. Archdruid Vargoth is here and had fallen under Toth's sway... He is now one of Toth's Luitenants, and is corrupting a dryad grove. All of his people are good people now corrupted, and if we defeat Toth we can save them. Minotaur Archdruid is one - invading a druid burrow. Gnoll (not trick), aarokocra that willingly serves, a hag, and an archdruid who is permanently wildshaped to owlbear named Ariel. 