An archaeologist and historian who became a [[Wild Mages|Wild Mage]] after contact with a [[Icelia's Command Sphere|certain Valuren relic]] that she then turned over to [[Malphas]].
Died during the [[Battle of Charrum Vale]] alongside the rest of her party. She was selling her memories to [[Scrimshaw]] to ease the pain of losing her life as she knew it. The relic she picked up compelled her to hold it close and be with it.


Scrimshaw ate 13 years of memory - For an invisibility cloak and a lockbox

Icelia’s memories
1 - Playing with her dog, having a picnic with her grandparents
2 - Picking berries, thinking her uncle was a king (he was the owner of a logging camp)
3 - First snows, happy Christmas with her and her 6 siblings
4 - Being bullied at school, pushed in the dirt and getting the kid in trouble
5 - Reading her first little novel about young treasure-hunting heroes, making a friend ‘carver’, pushing her older sister off her bike because she stole from the youngest
6 - Having a fave teacher, a class rabbit, meeting her cousins and getting a lamb
7 - Death of her grandfather, discovering his maps and theories about the elven homeland
8 - Learning allll about it, going camping and looking for it, talking to her friends about it, getting lead away from her town and roughed up by some bullies because they told her they had a clue and she needed to meet them to get it
9 - Carver and her toss rocks in their windows and steal the main bully’s birthday cake, and Icelia starts to pull ahead in her classes. Her parents are proud, but she gets in trouble
10 - A wild mage is discovered in their town, and is lynched. She makes another friend, Sabrina.
11 - Her friends start dating, and break up. This ruins all their social circles and Icelia is alone. Her parents divorce, and her older brothers and her start raising their family. Icelia swears off romantic relationships as temporary, damaging, and wasteful.
12 - Icelia reads a lot, and learns history, finance, the classics, etc. She is very lonely, br studies soar.
13 - Her father allows her to work with him in his inn, and she hears about fascinating delves and legends. She’s captivated by them, and decides to be an explorer that will find her grandfather’s obsession.
 --- ANNIHILATION LINE ---
14 - Carver gets into drugs and she turns away from her last connection, she becomes friends instead with the kids who used to bully her and has a sudden spike in popularity. Despite their negative role in her life, they’ve matured into surprisingly good people. They throw a lovely party on a farm one night that she remembers as one if the days where she’d felt most connected and appreciated in her life. (Friends: David, Kajalma, Dorkun)
15 - She moves into the inn. A shadow is spotted near the town that causes a huge scare. She sneaks alcohol to her friends and they start to speculate about Erressia together. As Kajalma’s an elf, she hears new perspectives on it that fascinate her. She reads spicy novels. She records stories she hears at the inn, and tries to investigate their truths out of fascination.
16 - Her mother reaches out after a few years and Icelia awkwardly becomes friends with her again. She starts to look into her family history and lineage for a class project and goes far above what’s expected, discovering through historical records and archaeological evidence that her distant ancestor was an obscure general in the dawnborn’s army. This gets her brother a position in the armed forces, and she’d invited to the capital to study. Her dog dies.
17 - Icelia leaves home and lives in a university dorm in Ark. She’s too young to match her peers socially, and honestly struggles to keep up intellectually. She thinks her invitation was a mistake, and begins to overcompensate through taking her studies much too far. She learns history in all its forms, studies every novel and account and puts together her own understanding of the world as it’s come together. Her remarks are not brilliant, but they are exceptionally well-read.
18 - Her research earns her a field-trip to Valuren ruins, and the explorers she accompanies are friendly. They got along very well, and her new friend (a rather astute young rogue named Gilgamesh) trains her to excessively look for hidden clues and riches. It pays off, and she returns with an ancient ring that was hidden away. During her evaluation she discovers that it is magical, but in publishing her research she is reprimanded and the ring is taken. 
19 - Icelia gets a job as a magician’s assistant during the summers and finds a new group of friends in her research community. They trace fables and clues, but none know of the elven homeland that she chases. They get closer in time. (Friends: Kaiman, Yellow-Dreams of Clouds, and Chrona.) These friends of hers quickly become more than friends, but she stays out of it despite their wish to include her. Sex and romance are kindling for a relationship to go up in flames, after all.
20 - Her instincts are right, and drama tears apart the group. They all remain friends with Icelia. She learns some magic tricks from work, and takes classes on mathematics, ancient army composition and logistics, and global history.
21 - She tries to visit home, but ends up skipping her large family and only seeing her friends. …And her dad, but he swears it a secret. She finds it strange to be homesick while hating how toxic and boring her upbringing was. Icelia graduates and joins the Ark’s League of Archaeological Excavation
22 - Icelia stays in Ark and examines the things the guild brings back for her, but she convinces them that she would be more useful on-site despite her lack of combat training. They agree, and she starts doing delves with them and mapping their journeys. With her excess cash she hires someone to teach her to read and write ancient valuren. She also drunkenly kisses Chrona, which she refuses to talk about ever. 
23 - Sabrina of all people joins their expedition as a priestess of Deyma. She heals and supports the expeditions, and the two become friends again after so long. They start to live together and get a domestic raccoon named ‘Aknook’ after a baker who did graffiti during his final days they find perfectly preserved in Valuren ruins.
24 - Icelia publishes a paper on Valuren automatons and their functions in the military. It receives a fair amount of success, and puts her name out there as a respected academic in her field. By now she has at least 15 papers published from her work and experiences. Icelia tries to skate and it goes so, so poorly. Her friends (all 4) think it’s hilarious, and she agrees after the fact.
25 - Icelia goes on a trip out west, and when she returns she’s spending more time than usual training to be combat ready. In one of her latest delves she got trapped away from her group and had to run from a troll. In another delve, her tendency to search everything so excessively nets her a brilliant artifact - a control sphere. She claims it, and suddenly her life is ruined. She can’t control the magic, but learns to slowly command it. The fever overcomes her, and she abandons the expedition and flees into the unknown. The group assumes she’s cursed and tries to track her down.
26 - Only a few weeks later she ends up in Dragon-whateveritscalled and the campaign ensues. Her life as she knows it is over and she can never return. This devastates her, but she tries her best to keep looking forward.